# Get started with Microsoft Data Analytics

## Discover data analysis

### Overview of data analysis

#### Data analysis 

It is the process of identifying, cleaning, transforming and modeling data to discover meaningful and useful information.

#### Core components of analytics

##### Descriptive analytics

It helps answer questions about what has happened based on historical data.

An example is generating reports to provide a view of an organization's sales and financial data.

##### Diagnostic analytics

Helps answer questions about why events happened.

##### Predictive analytics

Help answer questions about what will happen.

These techniques could include neural networks, decision trees and regression.

##### Prescriptive analytics

Help answer questions about which actions should be taken to achieve a goal.

By analysis, it can estimate the likelihood of different outcomes.

##### Cognitive analytics

It attempts to draw inferences from existing data and patterns.

### Roles in data

#### Business analyst

Interpets visual data

#### Data analyst

Responsible for profiling, cleaning and transforming data.

#### Data engineer

They manage and secure the flow of structured and unstructured data from multiple sources.

#### Data scientist

They perform Exploratory Data Analysis, looks for patterns and anomalies with advanced techniques like Deep Learning

#### Database administrator

Manages hardware and security of the data.

### Tasks of a data analyst

#### Prepare

Data preparation is the process of taking raw data and turning it into inforamation that is trusted and understandable.

#### Model

Data modeling is the process of determining how your tables are related to each other.

If Power BI is performing slowly, you should review the preparation and modeling of your data.

#### Visualize

It's where you get to bring your data to life. The ultimate goal is to solve business problems.

#### Analyze

It's the step of understanding and interpreting the information that is displayed on a report.

#### Manage

Managing makes you responsible of reports, dashboards, workspaces, datasets and more.

## Get started building with Power BI

### Introduction 

Power BI is a collection of services, apps and connectors that helps you turn unrelated data into insights

### The parts of Power BI

It is a SaaS (Software as a service).

So its three elements are: Desktop, the service and Mobile apps

### The flow of work in Power BI

It's usually used in desktop to create reports, service is used to share and mobile to view.

### Building blocks of Power BI

#### Visualizations aka Visual

It's a visual representation of data

#### Datasets

A dataset is a collection of data.

You can use a single table or put together many different sources with Power BI's connectors.

#### Reports

A report is a collection of visualizations that are related.

#### Dashboards

It's a one-page collection of visuals that you can share with others.

It should provide a quick insight into the data you're trying to present.

#### Tiles

A tile is a single visualization



